
  Christine Herlihy               
  4/26/16 EN.605.204.81.SP16    
  Module 12 Assignment            
  Check Yourself Questions (5.11) 

#### Which of the following are true about RAID levels 1, 3, 4, 5, and 6?

#### 1. RAID systems rely on redundancy to achieve high availability.
This is **TRUE**. RAID stands for "redundant arrays of inexpensive disks", and
each of the RAID levels in the set {1, 3, 4, 5, 6} relies on redundant check
disks to protect/back-up data and facilitate recovery in the event of
disk failure, thus achieving high reliability.

#### 2. RAID 1 (mirroring) has the highest check disk overhead.
This is **TRUE**. Among the RAID levels in the set {1, 3, 4, 5, 6}, RAID 1 has
the highest check disk overhead, because it uses mirroring to ensure
reliability. This means that in RAID 1, whenever data is written to a given
disk, the same data is also written to a redundant disk. Thus, the ratio of
data disks to check disks is n:n. For RAID 3, 4, and 5, the ratio of data disks
to check disks is n:1, where n is the number of disks in a protection
group. For RAID 6, the ratio is n: n/2, where n is the number of disks in a
protection group. Thus, while RAID 6 has twice the overhead of RAID 3, 4,
and 5, RAID 1 has the highest overhead of the group.


#### 3. For small writes, RAID 3 (bit-interleaved parity) has the worst throughput.
This is **TRUE**. RAID 3 is characterized by byte-level striping, and has a
dedicated parity disk per protection group. As such, all I/O requests,
including small writes, require access to all the disks in the protection
group, and simultaneous small write requests are not possible. RAID 4
provides block-interleaved parity, and in the case of small writes, requires
4 disk accesses to 2 disks (compare old data to new data; read old parity;
change corresponding bits; write new data and new parity), instead of all
disks. RAID 4 thus improves upon RAID 3, but there is still a bottleneck due
to the single parity disk. In RAID 5, parity is distributed, and thus,
there is no longer a bottleneck for small writes. Multiple writes
can take place at the same time as long as the impacted parity blocks aren't
on the same disk. Thus, of the 3, RAID 3 offers the worst throughput for
small writes.

#### 4. For large writes, RAID 3, 4, and 5 have the same throughput.
This is **FALSE**. In RAID 3, every write access goes to all disks in the
protection group, while RAID 4 suffers from the bottleneck caused by a
dedicated parity disk. In contrast, RAID 5 distributes the data and parity
information across all disks. Thus, there is much less of a bottleneck when
performing writes, given that multiple writes can take place at once as long
as the impacted parity blocks aren't on the same disk. RAID 5 offers
improved throughput, and thus, the three RAID levels don't have the same
throughput for large writes. 
